Initial release of new kickstart script. (#11764)
netdata/netdata: packaging/installer/methods/kickstart.md

This page covers detailed instructions on using and configuring the automatic one-line installation script named
`kickstart.sh`.

> This method is fully automatic on all Linux distributions and macOS environments. To install Netdata using the
> most optimal installation method for your system, and get _automatic nightly updates_, run the following as your
> normal user:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The kickstart script works on all Linux distributions and macOS environments. By default, automatic nightly updates are enabled. If you are installing on macOS, make sure to check the [install documentation for macOS](packaging/installer/methods/macos) before continuing. 

> If you are unsure whether you want nightly or stable releases, read the [installation guide](/packaging/installer/README.md#nightly-vs-stable-releases). 
> If you want to turn off [automatic updates](/packaging/installer/README.md#automatic-updates), use the `--no-updates` option. You can find more installation options below.

To install Netdata, run the following as your normal user:

```

## What does `kickstart.sh` do?

The `kickstart.sh` script does the following after being downloaded and run using `sh`:

- Determines what platform you are running on.
- Checks for an existing installation, and if found updates that instead of creating a new install.
- Attempts to install Netdata using our [official native binary packages](#native-packages).
- If there are no official native binary packages for your system (or installing that way failed), tries to install
  using a [static build of Netdata](#static-builds) if one is available.
- If no static build is available, installs required dependencies and then attempts to install by 
  [building Netdata locally](#local-builds) (by downloading the sources and building them directly).
- Installs `netdata-updater.sh` to `cron.daily`, so your Netdata installation will be updated with new nightly
  versions, unless you override that with an [optional parameter](#optional-parameters-to-alter-your-installation).
- Prints a message whether installation succeeded or failed for QA purposes.

## Optional parameters to alter your installation

> The `kickstart.sh` script accepts a number of optional parameters to control how the installation process works:

Reviewer 2: Maybe it should be noted that a combination of the kickstart.sh parameters is not allowed.

Reviewer: @cpipilas In the sense of: 

> Note: You can only use one parameter when you run the kickstart script.

Author: I’m a bit confused by this myself, as there isn’t any such limitation that I know of (and the new kickstart code gives useful error messages when incompatible options are specified, unlike the old one).

- `--install`: Specify an installation prefix for local builds (by default, we use a sane prefix based on the type of system).

Additionally, the following environment variables may be used to further customize how the script runs (most users
should not need to use special values for any of these):

- `TMPDIR`: Used to specify where to put temporary files. On most systems, the default we select automatically
  should be fine. The user running the script needs to both be able to write files to the temporary directory,
  and run files from that location.
- `ROOTCMD`: Used to specify a command to use to run another command with root privileges if needed. By default
  we try to use sudo, doas, or pkexec (in that order of preference), but if you need special options for one of
  those to work, or have a different tool to do the same thing on your system, you can specify it here.
- `DO_NOT_TRACK`: If set to a value other than 0, behave as if `--disable-telemetry` was specified.
- `NETDATA_INSTALLER_OPTIONS`: Specifies extra options to pass to the static installer or local build script.

### Connect node to Netdata Cloud during installation

> The `kickstart.sh` script accepts additional parameters to automatically [connect](/claim/README.md) your node to Netdata
> Cloud immediately after installation. Find the `token` and `rooms` strings by [signing in to Netdata
> Cloud](https://app.netdata.cloud/sign-in?cloudRoute=/spaces), then clicking on **Connect Nodes** in the [Spaces management
> area](https://learn.netdata.cloud/docs/cloud/spaces#manage-spaces).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `kickstart.sh` script accepts additional parameters to automatically [connect](/claim/README.md) your node to Netdata Cloud immediately after installation. 

> Note: You either need to run the command with root privileges or run it with the user that is running the agent.  More details: [Connect an agent without root privileges](/claim/README.md#connect-an-agent-without-root-privileges) section.

To automatically claim nodes after installation: 
1. Sign in to [Netdata Cloud](https://app.netdata.cloud/sign-in?cloudRoute=/spaces)
2. Go to the [Spaces management area](https://learn.netdata.cloud/docs/cloud/spaces#manage-spaces)
3. Click on **Connect Nodes**
4. Find the `token` and `rooms` strings and specify your nodes:
```
@Ferroin I untangled the paragraph that contained steps into an ordered list for clarity. Please check if the wording and workflow makes sense.

- `--claim-token`: Specify a unique claiming token associated with your Space in Netdata Cloud to be used to connect to the node
  after the install.
- `--claim-rooms`: Specify a comma-separated list of tokens for each War Room this node should appear in.
- `--claim-proxy`: Specify a proxy to use when connecting to the cloud in the form of
  `socks5[h]://[user:pass@]host:ip` for a SOCKS5 proxy, or `http://[user:pass@]host:ip` for an HTTP(S) proxy.
  See [connecting through a proxy](/claim/README.md#connect-through-a-proxy) for details.
- `--claim-url`: Specify a URL to use when connecting to the cloud. Defaults to `https://app.netdata.cloud`.

For example:

```bash
wget -O ./kickstart.sh https://my-netdata.io/kickstart.sh && sh ./kickstart.sh --claim-token=TOKEN --claim-rooms=ROOM1,ROOM2
```

> Please note that to run it you will either need to have root privileges or run it with the user that is running the agent, more details on the [Connect an agent without root privileges](/claim/README.md#connect-an-agent-without-root-privileges) section.

Reviewer: This information needs to be presented before the user runs the script.
```suggestion
```

### Native packages

We publish official DEB/RPM packages for a number of common Linux distributions as part of our releases and nightly

> builds. These packages are available for 64-bit x86 systems, and depending on the distribution and release may

Reviewer: ```suggestion
builds. These packages are available for 64-bit x86 systems. Depending on the distribution and release they may
```

> also be available for 32-bit x86, ARMv7, and AArch64 systems.  These packages are the recommended installation
> method if available and will be used by default if possible for your system, allowing you to then handle updates
> of Netdata as part of your usual system update procedure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
also be available for 32-bit x86, ARMv7, and AArch64 systems. If a native package is available, it will be used as the default installation method. This allows you to handle Netdata updates as part of your usual system update procedure.
```

If you want to enforce the usage of native packages and have the installer return a failure if they are not available,
you can do so by adding `--native-only` to the options you pass to the installer.

### Static builds

> We publish pre-built static builds of Netdata for Linux systems. Currently, theseare published for 64-bit x86,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We publish pre-built static builds of Netdata for Linux systems. Currently, these are published for 64-bit x86,
```

> ARMv7, and AArch64 hardware. These static builds are able to operate in a mostly self-contained manner, only
> requiring a POSIX compliant shell and a supported init system. These static builds install under `/opt/netdata`. If

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ARMv7, and AArch64 hardware. These static builds are able to operate in a mostly self-contained manner and only
require a POSIX compliant shell and a supported init system. These static builds install under `/opt/netdata`. If
```

you are on a platform which we provide static builds for but do not provide native packages for, a static build
will be used by default for installation.

If you want to enforce the usage of a static build and have the installer return a failure if one is not available,
you can do so by adding `--static-only` to the options you pass to the installer.

### Local builds

For systems which do not have available native packages or static builds, we support building Netdata locally on
the system it will be installed on. When using this approach, the installer will attempt to install any required
dependencies for building Netdata, though this may not always work correctly.

If you want to enforce the usage of a local build (perhaps because you require a custom installation prefix,
which is not supported with native packages or static builds), you can do so by adding `--build-only` to the
options you pass to the installer.

> ## Considerations for macOS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## Verify script integrity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Verify script integrity
```

Author: This actually should be at the heading level, the section above was unintentionally empty and needs to just be dropped for now instead.
